Animated videos,
like those in the series
Become Jehovah’s Friend,
have been helping young ones
draw closer to their heavenly Father
for several years now.
Look, Mom, I’m rejoicing in the hope!
Wee!
But did you know
that what you see on the screen
might last just a few short minutes
but it may involve weeks of work
by a virtual army of volunteers?
With so much time and expense
involved in making an animated video,
a lot of careful planning
is required to avoid waste
and to keep
the process running smoothly.
Let’s take a look at how the effective use
of preproduction tools
help all of these brothers and sisters
work together to take a video
from initial concept to final production.
Under the direction of the Teaching Committee
of the Governing Body,
the work begins
long before the artists even get started.
They provide direction
on the theme that needs to be taught.
Members of the animation team collaborate
to develop the featured characters
as well as plot structure,
and they work closely
with writers and storyboard artists
to develop the approved idea
into a story line.
Once a complete script is ready,
the whole team
gathers together for a table read.
This is the first time the team
hears the whole script being read aloud.
Dialogue is meant to be heard.
So when we read it aloud at the table read,
we pick up on things
we didn’t see in the written script.
We’re able to tighten the story
and make it as clear as possible.
The script is reviewed
by the research team for accuracy.
Then it’s revised, polished, and submitted
to the Teaching Committee for approval.
With an approved script in hand,
the director then works with an artist
to start turning words into pictures
—visualizing each scene on a storyboard.
First come the rough boards,
showing what will be included in each shot.
When it comes to the animation world, really,
everything you see on screen
has to be designed and created
—the characters, the furniture, the props,
the environment
are all created by a designer.
The storyboard really helps us
figure out exactly what we need to create
so that we’re not creating
too much or too little.
Once approved by the director,
the storyboard artist
cleans up each of the boards.
Preliminary recordings of dialogue, music,
and sound effects are added.
These are then used by the director
and compositor to create an animatic.
An animatic
is a rough draft of the entire video.
The animatic is very important for us.
That way the director
and, more importantly, the Teaching Committee
can see the entire video
before we are actually making it.
And with that they can review it
and give us the proper direction.
The finished animatic is submitted
to the Teaching Committee for review.
Based on direction from the committee,
the team makes sure
that the teaching points come across clearly
and that the finished product
is true to the spirit
and intent
of the approved concept for the video.
Finally, using the approved
animatic as a blueprint,
full production begins.
Really, everything in animation
can be very time-consuming.
An animator working full-time here at Bethel
may be able to produce
four to six seconds of animation in one week,
and that doesn’t even include other aspects
that are very important, such as modeling,
rigging, lighting,
compositing, and many others.
From the examples shown here,
you can see
just how closely the final version
of the video Make Jehovah Happy
follows the animatic.
Preproduction tools
such as storyboards and animatics
do more than save
the organization time and money.
They enable the Teaching Committee
to carefully evaluate
every project along the way
from the initial approved concept
to the final product
in order to keep providing videos
that help all of us
honor our Friend, Jehovah.